Introduction
============

Wing Linux is designed to be run directly from your storage card -- no need for repartitioning
or complex installation.

Installation
------------

The following is the normal installation procedure and does not require any manual
partitioning.  It will install Wing Linux to a filesystem image residing on your
fat32-formatted SD card.

    1) Download the latest Wing Linux Zip file and unzip it

    2) Install the wing-linux-[version]-rootfs.cab file to your phone (either directly or using
       ActiveSync).  Ensure you install it to Storage Card (not internal memory) -- it won't run
       anywhere else.

    3) Now, install the .cab file for your phone.  Without this, Wing Linux will not work.  Remember
       to install it to storage card as well.

    4) Click on Start -> Programs -> Wing Linux to start

    5) Follow the on screen instructions.  First bootup takes a long time -- please
       be patient.

If you encounter screen problems, skip to the "Troubleshooting" section below.

Once your system is booted, you can follow the section "Logging in Remotely" to connect
to it via SSH.


Installing to a Dedicated Partition
-----------------------------------

Installation to a partition has a speed advantage over the normal installation method,
but requires more work to set up and maintain.

For these steps, you will need to be using Linux on your computer and have an SD
card reader.  You can use the WM5Storage program on your phone to turn your phone
into a mass storage device, but I don't recommend this method as it's much slower
than using the SD card directly.

    1) Begin by partitioning your SD card on your Linux computer.  I recommend the following
       scheme:

        Partition 1: VFAT (fat32) partition covering most of your SD card
        Partition 2: Linux (ext3) partition at least 250mb in size

    2) Place your SD card back into your phone and follow all steps in the "Installation"
       section above through step 3 to install Wing Linux onto your fat32 partition

    3) Remove your SD card again and attach it to your computer.  Mount both the fat32
       and ext3 partitions.

    4) As root, extract the rootfs.tar.gz file (located in the linux/ directory on your
       vfat partition) to your ext3 partition.  For example, if your vfat partition is
       /media/disk and your ext3 partition is /media/disk-1, do the following:

           cd /media/disk-1
           sudo tar -xzvf /media/disk/linux/rootfs.tar.gz

    5) Unmount both partitions and detach the SD card from your computer, reinstalling
       it back into your device.

    6) Delete the file "/Storage Card/linux/rootfs.img.status" -- this will bypass the
       installation program that normally installs Wing Linux to your vfat partition.

    7) Click on Start -> Programs -> Wing Linux to start Wing Linux

    8) Wing Linux will start booting from your partition.


Logging In Remotely
-------------------

If you'd like to control the phone from another computer, plug in a USB cord to it
and configure your usb0 device (from Linux) as follows:

   # sudo ifconfig usb0 10.100.0.2 up

Ubuntu users may have to run this several times before it takes effect.

Now you can ssh into the phone as follows:

   # ssh root@10.100.0.1

The password is "wing".


Troubleshooting
---------------

Q: When I boot, I see a lot of scrolling text, then my screen fades to white and appears
   to freeze.

A: Normally, the video settings for your board configuration should be detected and used
   automatically.  If this fails, the display could be white and non-responsive.

   In this case, please submit the contents of "/Storage Card/linux/dispdump.txt"
   to a new thread on the Wing Linux forums (see http://wing-linux.sf.net) along with
   an account of all steps you took to start Wing Linux.  Include as detailed a description
   as possible as to what you saw on the screen throughout the whole startup process.  This
   will greatly help us debug the problem.

   Note that if you're attempting to run Wing Linux on a device that isn't supported, there's
   no guarantee that anything will work, but if we have this information, we can try and get
   your device supported.  Be sure to try all board configurations before giving up though,
   as one configuration may work better than another.

